# Principles of Data Science Coursework, MT23

This repository contains the code and report that is submitted for the Principles of Data Science MT23 Coursework.


## Installation
The code is written in Python. To install the required packages, run:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
or
```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
depending on your preferred package manager.

## Running the code
All scripts must be run from the root directory of the repo (do382) for the paths to work correctly.

The solutions to each question are in the `src` directory, and can be run individually, for example:
```bash
python src/solve_part_c.py
```
The code will run and save the plots to the report/figures directory. The file `fit_optimisation_plot.py` contains an additional plot that is included in section B of the report.

### Parts (F) and (G)
The simulation studies take around 45 minutes to run, and will display a progress bar. Data will save to the results directory once completed. Precomputed data is included in the results directory to allow plots to be generated without running the study - this can be achieved by setting the `run` parameter to `False` at the top of the `solve_part_f.py` and `solve_part_g.py` scripts.

## Report
The report is written in LaTeX, with a precompiled PDF included in the report directory. All figures are generated by the code, and saved to the report/figures directory where they are accessed directly by the LaTeX code.

## Docker
A Dockerfile is included to allow the code to be run in a container. To build the image, run:
```bash
docker build -t do382_pds_image .
```
from the root directory. To run the container, run:
```bash
docker run -dt name=pds do382_pds_image
```
A bash shell can then be opened in the container by running:
```bash
docker exec -it pds bash
```
From here the code can be run as described above. Data or figures can be copied from the container to the host machine, with `docker cp`. For example, to copy the results from part f to the host machine, run:
```bash
docker cp pds:/app/results/part_f/ results/part_f/
```